<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Introduction =

This page contains instructions for performing useful basic operations on your computer.  It is almost entirely linux (specifically ubuntu 10.04) focused.  If you don't have linux, run it from a LiveCD and make your life easier.  Windows is not designed to do what we do well.  You're better than Windows. 

= The terminal =

In Linux, the terminal window (the Linux analog of the windows "command prompt") is your friend.  In Ubuntu 10.04, go to *Programs > Accessories > Terminal* to find it.  

The terminal windows lets you directly type commands for your computer to execute or log onto a remoted computer and run commands on it from your desktop.  In general, commands take the following shape:
{{{
$ command -option argument
}}}
`$` simply illustrates the prompt at the beginning of the line where you type in the terminal.  every command will have a name, which comes first.  Some commeands we use frequently are:
{{{
ping
ps
cat
vi
echo
free
route
ls
}}}

sometimes you can use a command with nothing after it.
{{{
$ route
}}}
for instance, prints the contents of your computer's routing table.

Other programs require that some more information be added after the command
{{{
$ echo "hello"
}}}
prints "hello" to the terminal

finally, some programs require configuration options
{{{
$ tar -czf archive.tar.gz etc/
}}}
compresses the contents of the `etc/` directory into a file called `archive.tar.gz` while 
{{{
$ tar -xzf archive.tar.gz etc/
}}}
extracts the contents of the file `archive.tar.gz` back into the current directory.

For examples of useful commands to know when working with Fabfi, [TroubleShooting#Useful_Commands click here].

= Network Settings =

== Configure a Static IP ==
 # Go to *System tab-> Preferences-> Network Connections*:
 # Select the Wired option-> Add (you may rename this "connection")
 # Select *ipv4* and set method to *Manual*
 # Under *Address* put say *192.168.1.254*
 # Under *Netmask* put *255.255.255.0*
 # Under *Gateway* put *192.168.1.1* and press *Enter*
 # (optional) Click the *routes* button and in the resulting dialog, check the box for *Use this connection only for resources on its network*
  * Checking this box will allow you to be connected to a router on the wired link and browse the internet with your wireless connection at the same time.
 # Apply the changes.