<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Introduction = 

Instead of using the images we provide on the site, you can build your own images either from source or from the !OpenWRT imagebuilder. This page outlines both methods.  

== Workflow ==

When we build images, we follow these steps:

  # Checkout the scripts, imagebuilder and openwrt folders from the fabfi svn
  # download latest openwrt source
  # navigate to the trunk/scripts directory in the fabfi source tree
  # run buildsrc.sh to build the OpenWRT imagebuilder from the latest !OpenWRT source.
  # Extract the imagebuilder to your hard drive
  # Run the trunk/scripts/ffimage.sh script to build a custom image.


Download the latest image builder tarball from fabfi website (#link)

Create a folder ( e.g /home/user/imagebuilder )

Extract the tarball in the folder created ($ tar -xzvf imagebuilder.tar.gz)

svn checkout the latest build from google code ( $ svn checkout 
http://fabfi.googlecode.com/svn/ fabfi-read-only)

Enter the image builder folder in the svn image. ($ cd fabfi/imagebuilder )

Run ffimage.sh script. ($ sh ffimage.sh)

Enter a valid profile name (NS5L for Ubiquiti devices, WRT160NL for linksys)

Enter the path to the folder you extracted the imagebuilder ( e.g /home/user/imagebuilder)

Get your image from ( /home/user/imagebuilder/Openwrt-imagebuilder-xxxx/bin) folder

NOTE: Imagebuilder for 10.03.1-rc4 will not build kmod-fs-mbcache.  You need to separately get the package from [http://downloads.openwrt.org/backfire/10.03.1-rc4/ar71xx/packages/kmod-fs-mbcache_2.6.32.25-1_ar71xx.ipk here], put it in the packages folder in imagebuilder and the splice the kmod-fs-mbcache section of the [http://downloads.openwrt.org/backfire/10.03.1-rc4/ar71xx/packages/Packages Packages file] into your packages file.