=Configure your computer with a static IP address=

Go to System tab-> Preferences-> Network Connections:

Select the Wired option-> Add (you may rename this "connection")

Select* ipv4 * and set method to *Manual*

Under* Address * put say *192.168.1.254*

Under* Netmask * put *255.255.255.0*

Under* Gateway * put *192.168.1.1* and press *Enter*

Apply the changes.

=Download Firmware=

The .bin firmware (named jaimage.bin) can be downloaded from:[http://code.google.com/p/fabfi/downloads/list]

and saved,preferably,in the home folder.

=You are ready to flash!=

Connect the device to computer via the Ethernet port. You need to use ubiquiti PoE/lAN 

Adapters and two straight-through Ethernet cables. The LAN port is connected to the

computer whereas the PoE port is connected to the device. * Hold on!; *before you insert 

the RJ45 connector into the device's port, you need to press the reset button. You can 

insert the connector while pressing the button. Hold the button down for about 15 secs. 

You will notice the lights "playing" about. You have now entered tftp mode! You may need 

to install tftp if you haven't done that already. On the terminal run the command* 

apt-get install tftp *(Debian-based OSs). Remember you neeed to be connected to the 

internet when you run the command.

Make sure the wired connection you configured before is connected.

You can now, on the terminal, run * tftp 192.168.1.20 *

then * binary *. Optionally but recommended coz it helps you confirm that what you have 

done is right: run * rexmt 1 *and* trace on *. Lastly run * put jaimage.bin flash_update 

*. This should upload the firmware. Wait for about 30 secs then exit the tftp mode (press 

Ctrl Z).

Now run * telnet 192.168.1.10 *. this should take you to the Openwrt "page". Once you are 

there, run * sh setup *. This starts you off with the configuration of the device to do 

what your network design requires! * Note: * the same image is used for M5 (5GHz), M2 and 

picostation (2.4GHz). All you need to do, however, is specify when prompted (during 

configuration). Choose picostation for 2.4GHz and otherwise for 5GHz. Happy?