#summary This is only but a basic introduction to IPv6 addressing. The reader should be familiar with IPv4. For more information/complete tutorial on IPv6, refer to the links at the bottom of the page

=Introduction to IPv6=

IPv6 is the successor to IPv4. IPv6 addresses are 128 bits long ( compared with IPv4's 32 bits). For easy representation, an IPv6 address is divided into 8 16 bit hexadecimal numbers, for example

*2001:0470:1f08:1b61:725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08*

If the hexadecimal block starts with a zero, the leading zero can be omitted.
Also note that the hexadecimal digits are case-sensitive.
If an entire block or ( continuous sequence of blocks ) is zero, it can be omitted and represented with an extra colon ( : ). For example 

2001:470:1f08:1b61:0000:0000:0000:0054

can be represented

2001:470:1f08:1b61::54

Refer to http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952 for other methods of representation


==Address types==

There are many categories of IPv6 addresses, however, since this is just a "basic tutorial", we'll consider only 3 important ones :

=== Localhost address ===
Like IPv4's 127.0.0.1, in IPv6, the localhost address is 0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0001 , or in simpler way ::1

=== Link local address type ===

These begin with fe8x: , usually fe80: . Addresses beginning with fe9x:, feax: and febx also belong to this category though these prefixes aren't in use at the moment. 

e.g fe80::725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08

=== Global address type ===

These begin with 2xxx: or 3xxx: e.g 2a00:1450:400b:c00::63
These are globally routable IP addresses and are given by ISPs.

For info on other address types, refer to
http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Linux+IPv6-HOWTO/x513.html


==Structure of an IPv6 address==


Usually an IPv6 address is divided into two parts, each of 64 bits
Router Prefix - This is used for routing 

Host address	-This identifies a host in the network

For example 2001:470:1f08:1b61:725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08

Router Prefix - 2001:470:1f08:1b61

Host address  - 725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08

For a Link Local address fe80::725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08

Router Prefix - fe80:0000:0000:0000

Host address  - 725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08

The host address is computed automatically from the mac address of the host - This is known as stateless configuration or EUI-64 method. The host address can also be randomly generated by the host or can be manually assigned.

For example, if the mac address of the host interface is 70:5a:b6:30:cf:0c, the host address is computed as 725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08

To know more on EUI-64 method refer to http://standards.ieee.org/regauth/oui/tutorials/EUI64.html
=== Subnetting ===
Similar to IPv4 subnetting except that IPv6 address spaces are much larger. The most commonly used subnet mask is /64 for reasons explained above.

Other Subnet masks used ( albeit rarely ) are /48 , /56 etc

To completely specify an IPv6 address, it is advisable to include the subnet mask. 
 e.g  2001:470:1f08:1b61:725a:b6ff:fe30:cf08/64


== IPv6 Routing ==

Routing in IPv6 is very similar to IPv4 routing under [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing CIDR] with the exception that IPv6 addresses are 128 bits long while IPv4 addresses are 32-bits long.

To add a route

`#ip -6 route add <destination> via <router>`

note the -6 after ip

To view the your IPv6 routing table in linux use

`#route -A inet6`

`#ip -6 route show`

=== Router Advertisement Daemon ===

In the "Automatic/stateless" address assignment, the router prefix is usually advertised on the network by a router advertisement daemon such as radvd. Hosts in the network only need to pick the route prefix (64 bits long) and will then form the complete address by concatenating their host addresses (computed from the MAC address)
The router advertisement daemon can also send information such as the default gateway, other routes, MTU ,default hoplimit and router lifetime.

Read http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Linux+IPv6-HOWTO/hints-daemons-radvd.html for info on how to configure radvd 

==Tools to use with IPv6==

*Ping* - largely depends on your system. In Ubuntu linux, use `ping6` instead of the "normal" ping. In openwrt, when pinging an IPv6 address, use `ping -6`

*traceroute* - Use `traceroute6`

*ip* - Most ip commands work with IPv6 except that you need a `-6` switch after `ip`

*iptables* - Install and use `ip6tables` for IPv6 filtering

*tcpdump*  - To capture IPv6 traffic the option ip6 needs to be specified. `tcpdump ip6 <expression>`


References

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6

http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Linux+IPv6-HOWTO/