#summary A short introduction to the Simple Network Management Protocol.

= Introduction =

SNMP stands for Simple Network Management Protocol and is an Internet standard protocol for managing devices on IP networks. The SNMP agent must be installed on a host device ( router, server, switch etc ) that is to be monitored.
The monitoring device is known as the SNMP manager.

The SNMP manager and SNMP agent use an SNMP Management Information Base ( MiB ) and a set of commands to exchange information. The MIB files describe the structure of the management data of a device subsystem and use a hierarchical namespace containing Object Identifiers (OiDs).
Each OiD identifies a variable that can be read or set via SNMP.

SNMP can be used to minitor information such as 

There are 5 basic SNMP commands:

*GET* - Retrieve OID data from a device

*GETNEXT* - Retrieve the next OID from the device

*SET * - Used to set configuration data on an OID ( if allowed )


*TRAP* - A network node can send a notification to the management station

*INFORM* - An acknowledged trap (network nodes can try and send it again if no acknowledgement is received) 


= Some SNMP Commands and examples =

*snmpwalk* - Used to display all OiDs and their corresponding values at once.

e.g To view all OIDs of a device whose IP address is 192.168.1.1

`snmpwalk -v 2c public -c public 192.168.1.1`

snmpwalk can also be used to view just a single 'branch' of the MiB tree

e.g To display MiB  iso.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1

`snmpwalk -v2c -c public 41.204.176.76 iso.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1`

where

-v is the snmp version ( 2c in this example )

-c is community ( public in this example ) - The snmp community string is like a password and is used to restrict access to reading or writing snmp data. 

*snmpget* - Used to retrieve the value of a specific OID

e.g. 

`snmpget -v 2c -c public 192.168.1.1 iso.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.16.9` 

Where iso.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.16.9 is the OID whose value we want to retrieve..

*snmpgetnext* - This is used to retrieve the "next" valid OiD.

e.g 

`snmpgetnext -v2c -c public 41.204.176.76 iso.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.16.1`

will return the value for OiD iso.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.16.2 ( if it exists )

*snmpset* - This is used to set the value of an OID ( if the host device allows )


References

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Network_Management_Protocol

http://www.net-snmp.org/wiki/index.php/Tutorials