#summary Home Page for step-by-step install instructions.

= System Overview =

Every Fabfi system consists of one or more _Head nodes,_ and one or more _Common Nodes_.  The network access is controlled, and network performance monitored, by  by a _management server_, which can either be installed locally or in any location on the public internet. For networks where IPv6 is not provided natively by the uplink, the network uses a _tunnel provider_ on the internet to obtain an IPv6 address.

This guide will walk you through the steps of:
 # Registering for an account on the FabFi management server
 # Obtaining an IPv6 ip address
 # Flashing a FabFi device
 # Configuring your first network



=Part 1: Register for a FabFi provider account=

Coming Soon.  

`*` You do not need a fabfi operator account if you prefer to [FabfiServer5 build your own management server].

=Part 2: Configure IPv6 Tunnel=

*If your Internet Service Provider (ISP) already provides you with an IPv6 address with a /48 subnet mask, you may skip this step.*

 * If you have a static IPv4 IP from your internet service provider, you must configure a SIT tunnel.  To do this:
  # Obtain a free account from [http://tunnelbroker.net/register.php tunnelbroker.net]`*`.  
  # Connect any computer or home wireless router that will respond to `ping` to the IPv4 address you would like to use.  
  # In your tunnelbroker account, click "Create Regular tunnel" on the left sidebar.  
  # Enter your static IPv4 address, then choose a location closest to you.
  # A green box should appear under the IP you entered, indicating that tunnelbroker can reach it via `ping`.  If not, make sure your address in pingable
  # Click "Create Tunnel"
  # On the page for your new tunnel, click "Assign/48".  The link should be replaced with an IP address.
  # You're done!  (the router configuration script will automatically set up the other end of the tunnel for you)  
 
 * For _dynamic_ public IPs or networks hidden behind a NAT, you must [https://www.sixxs.net/signup/ obtain a tunnel account through SixXs.net] (this process may take as long as two days to complete).   
  # Once you have a SixXS account, log in and navigate to the "request tunnel" link on the left side.  
  # Choose tunnel type:
   * If you have a _dynamic_ public IP, create a dynamic tunnel
   * If you are behind a NAT, create an AYIYA tunnel
  # Enter the City your endpoint is in and click "Next Step"
  # On the following page, select the endpoint closest to you, and fill in the reason for selecting the endpoint / use of tunnel.  This WILL be read by a real person, so be genuine in your response.  
  # Click "Place Request for New Tunnel"
  # Your tunnel will typically be approved in a few hours and you will be notified by email.
  # Once your tunnel is approved, go to your homepage and click "request subnet" on the right.  
  # Select your new tunnel from the dropdown box and enter a reason for needing a subnet.  Again, this WILL be read by a real person, so be genuine in your response.
  # Your request will typically be approved in a few hours and you will be notified by email.
  
`*` You can also obtain static tunnels from SixXS.net, but their process is slower, so best to avoid them unless you are behind a NAT or do not have a static IPv4 IP.  

=Part 3: Flash device firmware=

_This tutorial will help you configure a simple network using the starter kits available at [http://store.fabfolk.com the Fabfolk Store].  If you intend to follow the tutorial verbatim, you should flash the routers from either:
 * 2 "City-Scale" kits (developer or outdoor)
 * 1 "Budget" Head Node and 1 "Budget" Common Node Kit
Depending on the type of network you would like to configure._

=== Prepare your computer ===     

This tutorial is based on ubuntu 11.04`*`:

 # Install TFTP
{{{
sudo apt-get tftp
}}}
 # Set up Serial communication _(This section is only required for users of the Linksys WRT1260NL)_
  # Install Minicom
{{{
sudo apt-get minicom
}}}
  # [SerialConverter Build CMOS Serial-->USB adapter]

<wiki:comment># Obtain a USB to CMOS-level serial adapter, such as [http://www.makershed.com/FTDI_Friend_v1_0_p/mkad22.htm?1=1&CartID=0 this]
   # Wire the  some wire or a header to attach the converter to the router, and a usb cable to connect to your computer *TODO: Spec a Kit with all the right components*</wiki:comment>

`*`If you do not have a computer running Ubuntu or another debian-based linux machine, we recommend you obtain one before proceeding.  If you do not have a computer that you can configure to run linux natively, you can boot Ubuntu from an installation CD or USB Stick as described on the [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download Ubuntu download page].

=== Download and install firmware ===

The firmware image and installation procedure for each device is different.  Proceed by choosing your device:

 * Linksys WRT160NL
 * Ubiquiti RouterStation
 * Ubiquiti PicoStation and NanoStation-Loco

=Part 4: Configure your first network=

_Follow these instructions to build a simple network with the [http://store.fabfolk.com Fabfolk Starter Kits].  If you would like to configure your network differently, you might want to read AdvancedNetworkDesign._

== Configuring the City-Scale Kit ==

== Configuring the Budget Kit ==

<wiki:comment> * Each device in a fabfi network has one or more radios 
 * Each radio in a Fabfi device can make one of three different types of connections:
  # 5Ghz mesh
  # 2.4Ghz mesh
  # 2.4Ghz client access
  # (coming soon) 2.4Ghz client access + mesh
</wiki:comment>