#summary An introduction to RRDTOOL and graphing

= Introduction =

RRDTOOL stands for Round Robin Database Tool. Unlike ordinary databases, a round robin database never grows in size - it simply writes over old data.

rrdtool is the successor to [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi_Router_Traffic_Grapher MRTG] - the MultiRouter Traffic Grapher.

There are basically three things done with rrdtool :

  * Create a round robin database
  * Updating the round robin database
  * Graphing the information in the RRD database
 
== Creating a RRD database ==

This is done with the command

`rrdtool create`

for example 

{{{
#rrdtool create meshdata.rrd --step 60  \
	DS:meshin:DERIVE:600:0:12500000 \
	DS:meshout:DERIVE:600:0:12500000 \
	RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:60 \
	RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:5:288 \
	RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:60:168 
	
}}}

Where :

*meshdata.rrd* is the name of the rrd database we are creating

*--step 60* - means that the database is to be updated every 60 seconds - or rather, the rrd database expects data every 60 seconds

*DS* - stands for data source. In this example, we have two data sources : meshin and meshout

*RRA* - stands for round robin archive. This example defines 3 RRAs. The first RRA `RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:60` - averages data every time it is read and stores 60 such values. Since our `--step` was 60 seconds ( one minute ), this RRA will store an hour of data.

`RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:5:288` - averages every 5 samples of data ( 5 minute averages ) and stores 288 averages. i.e it will keep a day's worth of data ( 5 x 288 = 1440 minutes & 1440/60 = 24 hours )

`RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:60:168` - averages 60 samples ( one hour averages, since step size = 60 ) and stores 168 such values . i.e 1 week of data ( 24 x 7 = 168 hours )

Check the links at the bottom of the page for more examples.

== Updating a RRD database ==

This is done with the command

`rrdtool update`

== Generating a graph ==

This is done with the command

`rrdtool graph`

References

http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/tut/rrdtutorial.en.html

http://www.cuddletech.com/articles/rrd/index.html